
# Isolate-ID: Automated Genomic Assembly & Genotyping

This project is a Nextflow-based workflow designed to automate the process of downloading SRA data, cleaning reads, performing parallel assembly and quality control, and finally genotyping the isolate using MLST.

## Workflow Architecture

---


## Prerequisites

Before running the pipeline, ensure your system (Linux, macOS, or WSL2) has the following installed:

* **Nextflow:** For workflow management.
* **Conda / Mamba:** For environment and software management (Trimmomatic, SKESA, FastQC).
* **Docker:** **Must be running** to execute the MLST genotyping step.
* **Java 17+:** Required to run Nextflow.

---

## Getting Started: Prepare the Data

Please git clone this repository to your desired local location to run this workflow. Unless explicitly mentioned, all actions should take place in the root of this repository.

``` bash
git clone https://github.com/seansteel3/my_first_wf/
cd ./my_first_wf
```

You have two options to provide input data for the pipeline.

#### Option A: Use your own data
Place your paired-end FastQ files directly into the `raw_fastq/` folder. The pipeline recognizes `.fq`, `.fq.gz`, `.fastq`, and `.fastq.gz` extensions.
*Files must follow the `*_1` and `*_2` (or `_R1`/`_R2`) naming convention.*

#### Option B: Use the download script
Run the provided Bash script to fetch data from the NCBI SRA. This script defaults to a test isolate if no accession is provided.
```bash
# To download the default test data (SRR36396747)
bash ./scripts/data_download.sh

# To download a specific accession
bash ./scripts/data_download.sh YOUR_ACCESSION_HERE
```
## Running the Pipeline

Once input data has been downloaded simply run the following bash command from the root of this project directory. in any terminal where nextflow is accessible to kick off the workflow:

```bash
nextflow run ./nextflows/complete_mlst.nf -with-conda
```

## Directory Tree

The final MLST outputs are found in the results --> genotyping results {SRA}_mslt.tsv summary file, while the FastQC reports are found in the results --> reports directory. Details on the remaining outputs and directory structure shown below:

```text
my_first_wf/
├── raw_fastq/              # Input: Unprocessed sequencing data
│   └── SRR36396747_1.fastq
│   └── SRR36396747_2.fastq
├── scripts/                # Helper scripts for data acquisition
│   └── data_download.sh
├── nextflows/              # Workflow logic and configuration
│   ├── complete_mlst.nf
│   └── nextflow.config
├── results/                # Output: Automatically generated by Nextflow
│   ├── cleaned_fastq/      # Output from TRIM_READS
│   ├── assemblies/         # Output from ASSEMBLE_SKESA
│   ├── reports/            # Output from CHECK_QUALITY & NF Engine
│   └── genotyping/         # Output from RUN_MLST
└── work/                   # Nextflow internal execution files (Safe to delete after run)
```


